# Week 1

Welcome to Week 1 of 2511.  Make sure your computer is all setup (check the home computing section on the left).

!> This week we won't diverge from the recommended tute but in the future I will include harder content that is more likely to appear on exams / assignments as well as try to supply an alternate position for things.

## Questions

1. What are the similarities and differences between C, Python and Java? Think in terms of the languages themselves but also style conventions and what they are used for?

<details>
<summary> Answer </summary>

### Syntax

- C and Java use `;` where as python doesn't
- C and Java both require types where in python you can just say 'a = 2'
- C and Java both use `{` `}` to signify blocks where as python uses indents

### Classes

- C has pretty 'bad' support for OOP (we can do it as you'll see but it's a lot of work) where as both Java and Python support it much better
- Python doesn't force OOP as much as Java does

### Access Control

- Python everything is public, in Java you can hide things using `private` (and others), in C you can hide things using opaque pointers (put a pointer to a struct in a `.h` file but put the struct in the `.c` file).

### Type System

- Java has a static type system and so does C where as python is dynamic

?> Java is more strongly typed then C and C is more strongly typed then Python, this was a small bit of contention in the class but 'strongly' typed is always relative which is why Java is often said to be 'strongly typed' but is definitely not as strongly typed as something like Pascal.  When we get into generics we'll learn how it's not as strong as we initially may presume and that there are quite a few runtime checks to ensure type safety.

### Others

- C has manual memory management where as both python and Java use a garbage collector (automatic)
- C is compiled directly into runnable code where as python/Java use an intermediate form (bytecode)
  - Java is also run in a virtual machine that uses something called JIT, that converts at runtime the Java code to machine code (the more it's used) so that it runs faster, python does have an interpreter that offers this but it won't be the default one you install (cpython).
</details>

### Back to questions

2. What is a class? What is an object? Based on your experience with Python, how are classes typically used?

<details>
<summary> Answer </summary>

?> It's kinda like a 'blueprint' or a description of what makes up an object, we typically use them to model real world instances like an `Employee` or a `Computer` may be a class

</details>

3. How do C, Python and Java compare to other languages you may have encountered at CSE or elsewhere? Is the best way of doing something in one language necessarily the best way of doing it in another?


<details>
<summary> Answer </summary>

?> Every language is a tool, and is fit for different purposes.  You can't always apply what you know in one language to another!

</details>

## Programming

1. Briefly, what is an IDE?

<details>
<summary> Answer </summary>

?> It stands for Integrated Development Environment, it combines the end to end of programming; that is: 'editing', 'compilation', 'execution', 'debugging', and 'code exploration'.

</details>

2. Write a program that uses the `Scanner` class to read in a line of numbers separated by spaces and sums them.

<details>
<summary>Code</summary>
<!-- [](Tute1/src/sum/Sum.java ':include :type=code java') -->

</details>

3. Write a class that stores a message and has methods for getting the message, updating the message, printing it out and printing it out in all caps. Write a `main()` method for testing this class.

<details>
<summary>Code</summary>
<!-- [](Tute1/src/shouter/Shouter.java ':include :type=code java')-->

<!-- [](Tute1/src/shouter/C_shouter.c ':include :type=code c') -->

</details>

As an aside we also briefly discussed a BankAccount class and why OOP allows us to identify invalid cases / restrict what can be done.

<details>
<summary>Code</summary>

<!-- [](Tute1/src/shouter/BankAccount.java ':include :type=code java') -->

</details>
