# Week 2!

## Recap

Let's recap some of what we did last week including some new nifty syntax!

## Quick Questions!

1. What's the difference between super and this
2. What about `super(...)` and `this(...)`
3. What is method overriding?  And what is overloading?
4. What is a static method / field and can you override it?

Answers:

1. Super talks about the parent/super class where as 'this' talks about the current class. This allows you to call functions that you overrided but call the parent implementation.
2. They are both constructors, `super(...)` will construct parent and `this(...)` will use a different constructor for the current class
3. Overriding is where the subclass can have it's own version of a function that is called instead of the parent's (i.e. you are overriding the parent's function).  Overloading is where you can have multiple functions with the same name as long as their parameters differ.
4. A static method/field belongs to the type and doesn't require an instance to call, you can't override them since they the calling function isn't runtime decided (i.e. if you do Shape.staticFunction() it's obvious it won't call Rectangle::staticFunction since you directly mention type).

## Access Modifiers

1. What are access modifiers?  How do we use them?  How do they differ from python?

Fill out the table below!

<iframe style="height: 200px;" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vQS881gdj1kVoJi8t3mWQEphdYmVkAIWiARAzPLX7e7g2TIVB4Ie-OULjoAASA99zu1NBccp5bPCGoM/pubhtml?gid=0&amp;single=true&amp;widget=true&amp;headers=false"></iframe>

2. Look at the access code and fix all the todos.

Look at the code, it begins [here](https://github.com/BraedonWooding/Comp2511-T2-2020/tree/master/Tute2/src/access)

## Java Exercise

1. Create an employee class with private fields for name, salary, and appropriate getters/setters with constructors.  Document with Javadoc.
2. How many constructors should it have?  What arguments should it take
3. Override the to string method and what should the result contain?

Extend from this and add a manager which is a subclass of employee and has a hire date.  As well as an array of employees that they manage.

1. What constructors are necessary?
2. Is it appropriate to have a getter for hire?  What about setter?
3. Override the to string method, should manager call the employee method?

Have a look at the code [here](https://github.com/BraedonWooding/Comp2511-T2-2020/tree/master/Tute2/src/work)

### Side Note: Class Inheritance

This would be a great case for potentially an interface, we'll look at interfaces very soon but just keep in mind that some of the stuff we show you early on may be a little flawed as we slowly bring you up to date with Java :D.
