# Week 2!

## Recap

## Access Modifiers

1. What are access modifiers?  How do we use them?  How do they differ from python?

Fill out the table below!

<iframe style="height: 200px;" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vQS881gdj1kVoJi8t3mWQEphdYmVkAIWiARAzPLX7e7g2TIVB4Ie-OULjoAASA99zu1NBccp5bPCGoM/pubhtml?gid=0&amp;single=true&amp;widget=true&amp;headers=false"></iframe>

## Shapes!

1. What is the difference between super and this?
2. What about super(...) and this(...)?
3. What are static fields and methods?

## UML

In this problem, we are going to create an Object-Oriented domain model for a system with the following requirements.

With success in student projects like Sunswift and Redback, UNSW have decided that they would like to build a system that can show all of the student-built and other cars that they have in order to showcase to prospective students interested in STEM and attract students from other universities. They have asked you, as a designer to produce a model for what this system will look like.

### Requirements

A Car has one or more engines and a producer. The producer is a manufacturing company who has a brand name.  Engines are produced by a manufacturer and have a speed. There are only two types of engines within UNSW's cars:

* **Thermal Engines**, which have a default max speed of 114, although they can be produced with a different max speed, and the max speed can change to any value between 100 and 250.
* **Electrical Engines**, which have a default max speed of 180. This is the speed at which they are produced, and the max speed can change to any value that is divisible by 6.

Cars are able to drive to a particular location `x`, `y`.

Since UNSW is a world-leader in technology innovation, they want you to be able to model the behaviour of Time Travelling for *any* vehicle, and to model a time travelling car. A vehicle that travels in time *stays in the same location* but travels to a `LocalDateTime`.

**Create a UML diagram which models the domain**.

During the lab, you will build on this UML diagram to incorporate further requirements.

## Work DB

Time to create a database (of sorts) that is going to store employee data!

Make sure to document stuff with JavaDoc.

This will *slightly* diverge from tute materials since I prefer introducing the concepts a bit more 'concretely'.
