# Wk 8

## Error Handling

[](Tute8/errno.c ':include :type=code c')

## Files

Questions

- What is a file?
- What is an extension?  Furthermore does it change the file whatsoever?
- What is a hidden file?

## `fopen()`

```c
FILE *fopen(const char *pathname, const char *mode);
```

- What different modes are available?
- What could cause it to fail?  What does it return when it fails?
- How do you print out the error msg?

## `fgets`/`fputs`/`fgetc`

- Why shouldn't you use them with binary data (i.e. `rb` `wb`)
- How many values can `fgetc` return?

## Q1) A file splicer!

Design a program to do the following;

```bash
./file_splice <filepath> aStart aEnd <aOut> bStart bEnd <bOut> ...
```

That is read from a file at filepath and splice it up into a series of files given a sequence of line numbers such that `aOut` consists of lines from `[aStart, aEnd)` and `bOut` consists of lines from `[bStart, bEnd)` and so on (infinitely).

<details>
<summary>Answer</summary>

[](Tute8/file_splice.c ':include :type=code c')

</details>

## `open` / `lseek` questions

?> Write equivalent using `open`

- fopen(FilePath, "r")
- fopen(FilePath, "a")
- fopen(FilePath, "w")
- fopen(FilePath, "r+")
- fopen(FilePath, "w+")

For lseek:

- Why do we care about it?
- What does it's return value mean?

?> Presume we have a file of 10,000 bytes what will be the file position after every lseek

- lseek(fd, 0, SEEK_END);
- lseek(fd, -1000, SEEK_CUR);
- lseek(fd, 0, SEEK_SET);
- lseek(fd, -100, SEEK_SET);
- lseek(fd, 1000, SEEK_SET);
- lseek(fd, 1000, SEEK_CUR);

## Q2) A byte splicer!

Design a similar program to before but now we are slicing bytes;

```bash
./byte_splice <filepath> aStart aEnd <aOut> bStart bEnd <bOut> ...
```

That is read from a file at filepath and splice it up into a series of files given a sequence of bytes such that `aOut` consists of bytes from `[aStart, aEnd)` and `bOut` consists of bytes from `[bStart, bEnd)` and so on (infinitely).

> Hint: It'll look somewhat like what our previous program was but we can use `lseek` and `open` instead!

<summary>Answer</summary>

[](Tute8/byte_splice.c ':include :type=code c')

</details>

## Read

```c
int fd;         // open file descriptor
int nb;         // # bytes read
int ns = 0;     // # spaces
char buf[BUFSIZ]; // input buffer

fd = open ("xyz", O_RDONLY);
assert (fd >= 0);

// why are we using '=' here?
while ((nb = read (fd, buf, 1000)) > 0) {
	for (int i = 0; i < nb && isspace(buf[i]); i++) {
		ns++;
    }
}
close (fd);
```

Given the above code how many calls are made to `read()` and what is the value of `nb` after every call?
